In this lesson, we'll look at an independent hosting benchmark site and discuss how to evaluate hosts.
You'll see me explore the pricing pages for three different hosts and discuss what type of business
each is most suited for.
By the end of this video, you'll understand why it's difficult to find real reviews and information
about WordPress hosts among all the online noise and how to navigate through it to select the right
host for you.
Before we get into the different specific types of hosting and pricing and recommendations, I want
to go over the kind of problem in the WordPress hosting space.
And that is that there are reviews and affiliate relationships and referral relationships that have
money involved.
And therefore in our industry, it's kind of hard and confusing to find real information and truthful
information about WordPress website hosting.
And so here's the one of the places that I would recommend you go.
Review Signal Dot Com is a website that takes honest reviews and posts them, and also does WordPress
hosting benchmarks every single year to rate different hosts on a lot of different categories, especially
performance at different pricing levels.
And so just add review signal dot com.
There's a chart right here and over on the WordPress side, you can see that there's a different levels
of pricing, and there's just a kind of a quick and quick ratings area here where you can get an idea
of where the different companies fit in regarding not only reviews from real users, but also performance
and consistency and reliability.
And so if you look at WordPress hosting, you can actually just open up and see actual reviews for these
companies.
And they're not the only companies available, but here's lists of web hosting reviews for many, many,
many hosting companies.
And first, as you look at the type of WordPress hosting that you need, as you'll learn here in this
section of the course, you might then give yourself kind of a short list of, say, managed WordPress
hosts and then go and look at the reviews and make your own decisions as far as what's the best.
And so don't always trust reviews.
You fine on on random blogs or on Facebook and groups and things like that because they are often influenced
by potential income being an affiliate or a referral partner and, you know, getting paid for every
single person that clicks through and signs up for hosting.
And so you can also go over to WordPress hosting benchmarks.
This is where you can really go into detail as far as looking at the the performance benchmarks of different
WordPress hosts at different pricing levels.
And so I would really encourage you to go in and to go into different pricing levels.
For example, less than $25 per month per website.
And at this level and and up from there and look at what's recommended, what's the most recent information
about, you know, the different companies and read the written reviews about the tests that were done
and the reviews on even, you know, customer service and support.
And so review Signal and the WP hosting benchmarks dotcom website is a great place to start and understand
the methodology and the scope of the tests by clicking here and then looking at the yearly tests for
both, you know, WordPress in general for regular web sites that a lot of them can be served statically
and cached and then WooCommerce as well in 2020 and 2021.
There are some WooCommerce specific benchmarks and tests for e-commerce sites which need a little bit
more server power in order to, you know, serve them accurately and at high speed for the user.
And so the companies and products, you know, so I've clicked here at less than $25 a month, WordPress
hosting performance benchmarks.
You can go to the results here and look at, you know, might you just go straight down to the awards
at this level?
There's some top tier and an honorable mention.
And you can just kind of look at what hosts are right here.
And of course, this isn't all the hosts in the world.
These hosts have volunteered to submit the, you know, a free hosting account or a an equivalent hosting
account to these levels.
So that the people at WP hosting benchmarks can make their tests.
And so Kevin Ohashi is the person that started this, and he is it's been really over the last, I'd
say, five to up to 10 years.
He's been doing these tests and trying to offer a solution to the problem of, you know, the market
is kind of obfuscated and it's confusing to find real honest information about WordPress hosting.
And so he's offered this up.
You can really go into some detail about the different plans and the different types of hosting and
narrow it down for yourself.
But I'm going to move forward here with talking about three types of hosting.
I'll talk about shared hosting and site ground dotcom site Ground is a company that I've been recommending
for shared hosting for a long, long time.
I've been using them for more than 10 years now as one of the hosting companies that I use for inexpensive
hosting.
And as we talk about pricing just a little bit before we go in that next few lessons into some detail
about each one.
If you look at the three pricing levels for sake around shared hosting here, here's where it kind of
can sneak up on people a little bit as far as you can see, you know, OK, save 75 percent.
That looks great, but that's not forever.
And it's not exactly clear here you know how long you get this discount for.
And so the real truth with with this is that, OK, here you can see that with start up, you get one
website and I wouldn't recommend startup except for maybe a practice or if you really are just going
to be hosting one website only.
It is the least expensive option out there for a host that's going to be quite powerful, have great
customer support and somewhere that you can rely on for shared hosting, that's inexpensive.
However, you can see that it's discounted from, you know, almost three times the cost fourteen ninety
nine per month, but you can pay three sixty nine.
And this is the key right here.
You can pay that amount for up to three years if you pay for each of those months in advance.
And so if you pay, what is it?
If it's 360 million a month times 12, it's $30, something like $40 for the entire year.
And if you can pay for that for up to three years, 120, 130 dollars or so, we'll get you three years
of hosting for one website at three sixty nine a month.
Now, at the end of that three year period, if you haven't migrated your site away to a different host,
which again is a whole section that we have in the course coming up about migrating sites between hosts,
it's not that hard to do.
But in any case, if you have migrated away you, it might come as a shock that your next payments will
be at the rate of 14 999 a month.
Now, it's still well worth that amount if you want to stay with site ground at that point.
Not a bad idea, but if you're going to be hosting anywhere from two sites to 10 and up and the grow
big and the go geek shared hosting plans are where I'd recommend Groberg is a great place to start.
It's you can get again up to three years at six 19 a month and then it will go to 20 499 a month.
And it's well worth doing.
But if we just take as a reference, you know, 20 gigabytes of space divided among all your web sites.
Now they say unlimited websites, but that's not really the case because you're going to start to run
out of storage space.
You may start to run out of monthly visits is something that they regulate.
And so with shared hosting again, one of the least expensive ways to host, I mean, lower than $10
a month per website is a great goal, especially when you'll be selling websites and hosting a website
care for something like 25 or $50 a month per website or $100 a month per website like I do.
And and so, you know, $10 a month per over here for for your entire plan, you could probably fit
10 websites on this grow big plan.
No problem 20 websites on this go geek, but you're looking at 20 gigs of space and 40 gigs of space,
and then you're going to start to run into your upper limits above that many websites.
And that's where either going to manage WordPress host, where you can really get much more storage
and much more power for even less money per website if you're hosting more than 10 websites.
And so from there, like we've played with, I recommend Flywheel as a managed WordPress host now when?
You look at viewing the managed WordPress plans under managed hosting here.
If you pay annually and let's just look at paying monthly so that we're looking apples to apples.
You can get a single website for $15 a month at a managed and that's with five gigs storage that's per
website and a certain number of bandwidth and monthly visits.
But the tiny is a great place to start if you're going to be hosting a single web site.
I would recommend that over shared hosting.
If you're going to be hosting a single web site now, the starter has a little bit more power and it
also is for one WordPress site and you could see it gives you, you know, five times the monthly visits
ET double the storage.
This is something that you can upgrade to later without even having to migrate or move your website.
And so the plans here are really, you know, if you pay annually, you can see that you're paying a
little bit less per website there annually for a up to 10 websites plan brings each website down to
under $10 per month per website.
And that is a level that I would I can really support and stand behind for hosting client websites.
I've used this freelance plan for up to 10 client websites for years and years, and it's been really,
really awesome.
They just take care of everything for you.
As far as performance, security, customer service is excellent.
If you ever need help, they are WordPress experts.
But let's talk about self-managed WordPress hosting for a quick second, and then we'll go into each
one in a little bit more detail.
But if we look at Grid Ben, here's their home page.
And if you one thing about Groupon is they'll offer a two week free trial where you do have to put in
a payment method, but you won't pay anything unless you keep your active account past the 14 day mark.
And I would recommend trying them out.
They have a couple different pricing levels if we look at pricing here.
The panel plan is something that I would recommend starting with.
Now I'm on the developer plan, which gives you a few more features that the panel plan doesn't include,
including the enhanced support.
And that's where you can have direct support tickets and the community, which is a great support channel
anyway, where people from Grid Pam, the server and system admins get in there and and help.
But this panel plan has a little bit less of a level of service, although it gives you so much power
as far as things that other plans don't include in their lower tiers.
We like with shared hosting Start Startup Plan is sacred and doesn't include staging.
There's a lot of benefits you get here for $50 a month, and if we talk pricing $50 a month here with
great pain lets you set up unlimited sites with their proprietary software stack, which I would call
the fastest or at least top three fastest software stacks available for WordPress.
And then you buy your own servers month to month at different levels.
And this is something we'll talk about in detail when we go into self-managed hosting and the section
that the lesson I should say that we're going to go into here, but the minimum I would recommend would
be a $20 a month, you know, four gigabytes of RAM memory server.
And so at the panel plan, looking at $50 a month plus a $20 a month server, you would be able to host
up to 40 sites.
I would recommend 20 to 40 sites on a on a $20 server at the grid pain plan or with another self-managed
WordPress company.
And so at $70 hosting 40 websites per month, you know you're really looking at, you know, you're
looking at what, just a couple of dollars per site per month way under $10 a month.
And so with self hosting the I would really recommend for 10 sites or more that you go ahead and pull
the trigger on something like grid pain.
It's well worth the developer plan when you get over 10 sites, or especially up to 20 or 40 or 50 or
60, like I'm hosting.
As far as client sites now, I charge from $25 a month to $100 a month for each one of those web sites.
And so I'm not technically paying for my grid paying account or for my servers, and I'll show you around
my.
Gripping account here just a little bit and give you an idea, especially we'll go deeper into how to
set this up and how to work with it in the next few lessons.
But you could see that I've got a few different servers that I run here.
There are some different sizes.
I have a big, dedicated server for the student sandboxes and for my own sites with e-commerce, and
I have certain servers that I use for particular companies that have multiple websites that I host for
them, and I keep those sites separate from everyone else.
I have others that I load up, for instance, some of these these up to up cloud servers.
I place between 20 and 40 websites on each of those, and I can manage those for that low, low cost.
And so, you know, here's the idea.
You can just set up inside of grid.
And I'll tell you around this in quick second here, you know, you can easily set up say, you know,
through digital ocean, I already have it connected.
I would just select, you know, here's my digital ocean connection and then I can look at the plans.
So they have a little warning here.
It's not recommended to use only one gigabyte of RAM.
I recommend starting with four gigabytes of RAM, which basically can cost you $20 a month.
And like I said, 20 to 40 websites on there and and have plenty of space to grow and have the fastest
front end and fastest loading websites for your clients.
And so it's super easy to spin up a website or a new server.
You know, if I look at if I look at sites here, if I wanted to add a new site, all I have to do is,
you know, have the site name here, select which of my servers.
I want to host it.
A few other selections.
And then I can easily go ahead and create a new site in just a minute or two on that server.
And I'm set to go and grid pain.
Pain, as I mentioned, provides us with one of the best proprietary software stacks for WordPress,
which powers it super fast also gives you some really excellent services that you can use that you can't
get on companies like Flywheel WP Engine and can't control that.
It's really a matter of transparency being able to control your own servers and do with them anything
you want to.
As far as backups and even failover systems where, you know, as far as tools, here's my integrations.
You know, I set up my my vulture's server is connected, my, you know, I don't have A. or a connected,
but really all you do is you put in the API keys from those companies and you pay those companies separately,
even though you can connect and set them up easily with great pain.
You know, I'm building from Vulture separately for my $24 high-frequency server.
I'm build from Up Cloud for a couple of $20 servers and a $40 server for one of my larger clients separately.
And then you set up DNS providers as well, and we'll connect all this together and explain it in different
sections of the course coming up.
But I have my Cloudflare integration here connected with with Groupon, as well as outgoing email.
And so I have a SendGrid integration where every time, anytime I set up a new website, I can enable
the SendGrid provider and I just have a free SendGrid account where all of my outgoing email is is sent
through a proprietary and managed IP address through SendGrid, which is a best practice not to send
your email through just the default WordPress website from your website server itself.
Again, another place when we go into the three types of email chapter you'll learn a lot about.
And so that gives you a good idea of how you can set everything up with a self-managed server and still
get the support you need.
You don't have to be a system administrator or know anything about code or about setting up servers
to have these systems work for you.
So next, let's get into each type of hosting in detail, and I'll show you the control panels and the
benefits and the disadvantages of each kind.